It was a lot of code to bite off,
but I think it gave --- hopefully gave you a sense like the end-to-end
process of like migrating a database in this way.
So it was about half and half,
so what I think we'll do is actually live code this solution
together so we understand how to --- like all the pieces of code
that are necessary to make this change happen.
So, the first bit that you're going to want to do,
like if I'm going to want to update my data model,
the first thing I want to is generate a migration,
and that piece of code or that documentation I put in the chat kind of
takes you through how that works using Sequelize.
So I'm going to use the sequelize command line utility,
and then it has an option called migration:create,
and that's going to create a new migration file for me in my project.
So, let me close some of this stuff down.
Alright, so again, when we have a migration like this,
a migration is going to consist of two operations,
the up and the down operation.
So when I am migrating my database up,
when I am modifying it from its previous state,
all of the logic to do that is going to be within the up function,
and when I --- if for some reason I need to roll that database change back,
all the logic to do that is going to be in my down function.
And one of the mistakes I saw of people making was trying to like
recreate the table for a user within the up function,
adding in that Boolean field that we had before.
So, totally understandable why you'd think so,
like you want to update the definition of this model,
but with a database you probably already have a database full of
like hundreds of thousands of todos or whatever,
and you can't recreate that database table or you'll lose all the data.
So what you want to do is modify it in place,
and that is the role of code in a migration.
So in the up function I want to add a column to my existing database.
So the way that I do that,
and this is again in the documentation that I put in the chat,
is using queryInterface.
addColumn.
And this takes a couple of arguments.
The first is going to be the name of an existing table,
which I believe is Todos.
I can double check that actually in my model file.
Todo actually it might be called.
So that's going to be the name of my table,
and then it's going to be the name of the attribute that I want to add,
and in this case I'll call it completed.
And then finally, I need the data type that I want it to be,
and in this case I'm going to make it a Boolean,
so I'll say Sequelize.
BOOLEAN type.
So I'm going to add a column to the Todo table called completed,
and it's going to be of type BOOLEAN.
And then in the down I'm going to do something very similar.
So rather than add column, I'm going to remove column,
and the two parameters I'm going to pass in again are the
name of the table and then the actual --- just the name of
the property I want to remove.
So we have Todo and then the name of column.
Alright.
So, now I've got my migration logic in a place where I feel like I want it.
Now what I want to do is,
you know that timestamp that gets generated for the migration
is important because it lets us --- Sequelize know like which
migrations have actually been applied because each migration is
ordered chronologically, so that I don't want to touch,
but the second part is just for humans to make it more readable.
So I'm going to call this migration add-completed-column or something like that.
I had Todos for the table name instead of the Todo.
It is Todos.
Is it Todos?
If you look at your other migration, it has an s on it.
Oh, okay.
So I'm sure I would've figured that out when my code didn't run,
but I appreciate the heads up.
So, can you explain again why would the down add the column?
Wouldn't it remove a column?
Oh, I'm sorry.
That was another typo.
It was copy/paste error on my part.
Thank you guys.
Appreciate it.
You are helping me debug left, right, and center.
So yeah, the up is going to add the column,
and the down is going to remove the column.
So that is my bad.
That is definitely the danger doing it live.
So my migration is created, I've given it a human readable label,
and then I can head out to the command line again,
and I'm going to run sequelize db:migrate.
Do you want to be allowing null as a value for the completed
attribute here or does it not matter in this instance?
So that's a question you have to answer like based on your application logic.
So if it is very important that this value is not null and you
want to have that constraint in the database,
in your migration you'll also have to update all of the other
columns or all of the other rows in the database to have either
a true or false value for that.
So, you'd have to code that into the migration.
In this case, we are going to allow a null,
and we're not going to mutate the rest of the table,
but you can kind of decide based on the needs of your application.
That's definitely something you have to think through.
Alright, so I've run my migration,
so now if I check my database and I --- this is another little tool
that I use a lot when I'm using Postgres locally,
it's called Postico, I don't know what exactly it's suppose to be called,
but it's a nice Mac GUI over my database,
and it lets me sort of take a look at the current status of my database.
And I think actually my database configuration might still be --- yeah,
it's actually set up to go to this other thing.
So I'm just going to delete that because I don't care about that,
and I'll run my migration again, and this will actually target my local database.
And I'll hit Refresh, and now I have my completed column,
but it's null because I didn't do any mutation of the existing data.
So now my database is in a good state.
Now I need to update my model to reflect this new value.
I missed the command for the update database.
What was that again?
It was sequelize db:migrate.
It was the same command that you ran to run the first migration initially,
but now it's going to pick up that there's a new migration
that it needs to run against the database.
Or npm run migrate.
Exactly.
We added that feature in earlier today.
Good point.
So, we run the migrations, and now we have this new column.
Now we need to update our model declaration in JavaScript to be aware of
this new property to make this property persistent.
So we'll add a completed attribute to the model, which again is going to be of type BOOLEAN.